[dagster-airflow] basic airflow migration guide (#11012)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/integrations/airflow/migrating-to-dagster.mdx

---
title: "Migrating Airflow to Dagster"
description: guide for doing a lift and shift migration of airflow to dagster
---

# Migrating Airflow to Dagster

> Dagster can convert your Airflow DAGs into Dagster jobs, making it possible to a lift and shift migration off of Airflow onto Dagster without any rewriting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dagster can convert your Airflow DAGs into Dagster jobs, enabling a lift-and-shift migration from Airflow to Dagster without any rewriting.
```

This guide will walk you through the steps of doing this migration.

> <Note>
>   Looking for example of an Airflow to Dagster migration? Check out the{" "}
>   <a href="https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-airflow-migration-example">
>     dagster-airflow migration example repo on github
>   </a>
>   !
> </Note>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note>
  Looking for an example of an Airflow to Dagster migration? Check out the{" "}
  <a href="https://github.com/dagster-io/dagster-airflow-migration-example">
    dagster-airflow migration example repo on Github
  </a>
  !
</Note>
```

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Prerequisites
```

Missing a section divider

To get started, you will need to install the `dagster` and `dagster-airflow` Python packages:

```bash
pip install dagster dagster-airflow
```

---

> ## Step 1: Create a new repository using <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_dagster_repo_from_airflow_dags_path" />

Reviewer: Headings shouldn't have extra formatting (bold, code, italics, etc) or components. It messes with how anchor links work - can you take the component out?

> The first step to migrating is to define a dagster repository, to do this we'll use <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_dagster_repo_from_airflow_dags_path" /> and pass it the file path of our Airflow Dag Bag. Dagster will then load that DagBag and convert all DAGs into Dagster Jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step to migrating is to define a Dagster repository. To do this, we'll use <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_dagster_repo_from_airflow_dags_path" /> and pass it the file path of our Airflow Dag Bag. Dagster will then load the DagBag and convert all DAGs into Dagster jobs.
```

```python file=/integrations/airflow/migrate_repo.py
import os

from dagster_airflow import make_dagster_repo_from_airflow_dags_path

migrated_airflow_repo = make_dagster_repo_from_airflow_dags_path(
    os.path.join(os.getenv("AIRFLOW_HOME"), "dags"),
    "migrated_airflow_repo",
)
```

> Under the hood, dagster is still running the exact operator code as you were in Airflow. You will be able to view your normal airflow stdout/stderr logs as compute logs in dagit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, Dagster is running the exact operator code as you were in Airflow. You will be able to view your normal Airflow `stdout`/`stderr` logs as compute logs in Dagit.
```

---

## Step 2: Define your Airflow connections

> By default each Job Run of your migrated DAGs will create an ephemeral airflow metadatabase scoped to each Job run, this means any [Airflow Connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) that your DAG was depending on will need to be created for that to work, to do this you can provide a `connections` parameter to <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_dagster_repo_from_airflow_dags_path" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, each job run of your migrated DAGs creates an ephemeral airflow metadatabase scoped to each job run. This means any [Airflow connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) that your DAG depends on will need to be created. To do this, you can provide a `connections` parameter to <PyObject module="dagster_airflow" object="make_dagster_repo_from_airflow_dags_path" />:
```

Also - `This means any Airflow connections that your DAG depends on will need to be created.` -- I assume this means 'created in Dagster'. I think specifying that in this sentence would help.

```python file=/integrations/airflow/migrate_repo_connections.py
import os

from airflow.models import Connection
from dagster_airflow import make_dagster_repo_from_airflow_dags_path

migrated_airflow_repo = make_dagster_repo_from_airflow_dags_path(
    os.path.join(os.getenv("AIRFLOW_HOME"), "dags"),
    "migrated_airflow_repo",
    connections=[
        Connection(conn_id="http_default", conn_type="uri", host="https://google.com")
    ],
)
```

> If you're running on Dagster Cloud and any of your connection fields are sensitive you can also pass them from [Environment Variables](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/environment-variables-and-secrets) instead of hard coding them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're running on Dagster Cloud and any of your connection fields are sensitive, you can securely pass them in using [environment variables](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/environment-variables-and-secrets).
```

This is also true for OSS though, isn't it? It just requires more setup than it does for Cloud.

---

## Step 3: Run your migrated DAGs locally

> Once we have a Repository defined we can launch dagit, view your newly migrated Jobs and launch runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've defined the repository, you can launch Dagit, Dagster's web UI. This allows you to view your newly migrated jobs and launch runs.
```

```bash
dagit -f <your migrated dags>.py
```

> If your local shell has the correct permissions you can also test out running the migrated dags end to end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your local shell has the correct permissions, you can also test out running the migrated DAGs end-to-end.
```

Is it worth telling the user how to do this?

---

## Step 4: Setup your permissions

> Your airflow instance likely had specific IAM or Kubernetes permissions that allowed it to successfully run your airflow dags, in order to run the migrated dagster jobs you'll need to duplicate these permissions dagster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Airflow instance likely had specific IAM or Kubernetes permissions that allowed it to successfully run your Airflow DAGs. In order to run the migrated Dagster jobs, you'll need to duplicate these permissions for Dagster.
```

> In general if you can lean on [Airflow Connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) or [Environment Variables](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/environment-variables-and-secrets) for defining these permissions it will be easier than modifying the underlying dagster infrastructure to assume roles that are permissioned correctly.
> 
> ### KubernetesPodOperators
> 
> If your airflow dags were using [KubernetesPodOperators](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/operators.html) its possible that you were using the `in_cluster` config or loading a kube_config file. When migrating switching to using a [Connection with a kube_config JSON blob](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/connections/kubernetes.html) will be easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Using [Airflow connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) or [environment variables](/dagster-cloud/developing-testing/environment-variables-and-secrets)** are the easiest methods for defining permissions.

- **If your Airflow DAGs used [`KubernetesPodOperators`](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/operators.html)**, it's possible that you used the `in_cluster` config or loading a `kube_config` file. When migrating, we recommend switching to [using connections with a `kube_config` JSON blob](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-cncf-kubernetes/stable/connections/kubernetes.html) to make things easier.
```

Having the Kube stuff be its own section felt a little odd, so I'm suggesting removing the heading and putting these options into a list instead.
